Welcome to this edition
of Extraordinary Experiences.
We’re very happy to have
with us today Laddie and Cecelia Sandy
serving as special pioneers
in the country of Sierra Leone.
You attended the 144th class of Gilead.
Welcome, it’s very nice to have you with us.
Thank you.
On March 23, 1991,
the civil war in Liberia
spilled across the borders
into Sierra Leone,
and this ignited an 11-year civil war.
Laddie, could you tell us,
what were the conditions like
as war came to Freetown,
where the branch was located?
It was total chaos
—no law and order.
Lawlessness was at its highest peak,
and it was terrible.
In your interview on The Inside Story,
you related how the branch
at one point was attacked.
Could you explain to us, Laddie,
what happened after that?
What did you do after that attack?
We had to leave the branch
because it was not safe.
People were just shouting that
the rebels were coming and amputating people,
so we decided to head
for another missionary home
on the other side of town.
We just went along with the crowd,
and we met a military roadblock
that asked us
not to go beyond that roadblock.
We had to spend the night
sleeping on the streets.
I tried to persist,
and they refused and warned
that if I continued asking them,
they would shoot at me.
Cecilia, what were you thinking at this time?
I felt like my whole body
was numb out of fear.
And I was just praying inside—
I was praying for a resurrection,
not protection, to Jehovah
because all I could see
in front of us was death.
So I would just pray
that Jehovah should please
remember us in the resurrection.
And we just left everything
in Jehovah’s hand.
Now, when the morning came,
what did you do in the morning?
We decided to return
because it was quiet and a little bit safe,
so we returned to secure the branch.
To go back to the branch was a big—
It was a big decision for us
because we didn’t feel safe any longer
to stay either at the branch
or the missionary home.
But we left everything in Jehovah’s hands,
and we did what the brothers told us:
“Don’t worry.
Jehovah will keep protecting us.”
And so we went back to the branch,
and we continued to stay there.
OK.
What would you say
really helped the brothers and sisters
during this time period
of war in Sierra Leone?
It’s love for Jehovah and the brotherhood.
They remained active
with theocratic-routine activities,
attending Christian meetings,
having family worship,
getting together as a brotherhood.
That was what really kept them going.
So meeting attendance
was important then, would you say, Cecelia?
Very much, very important.
Before any problem,
we have to develop love for meetings
because if we have
the habit of missing meetings,
it will be challenging in times of trouble.
What would happen if somebody
who usually came to the meetings
didn’t come to the meeting?
We had to go in search of him
(of the family) if the family was not there,
because during the war,
we did not have access to mobile phones.
The telephone system was terrible,
so we had to take the risk
and make sure they were OK and return.
So during this time,
if somebody who regularly came
to the meetings wasn’t there,
brothers would go out and risk their life
to find them, to make sure they were OK?
Yeah.
That’s a really powerful reminder, thank you.
Laddie, did you have anything else
you’d like to add or to share with us?
Well, in times of difficulties,
we need to pray
to Jehovah for courage
to face challenges in life
because Jehovah, indeed, will help us.
And the collective prayers
on our behalf from the brotherhood
—Jehovah does listen to such prayers.
That’s what, really, I learned personally
during the war period in Sierra Leone.
I don’t know where the courage came from.
Because it’s later on
that Jehovah gives the courage,
and the collective prayers
of our brothers also help.
Thank you very much.
We thank both of you very much,
and we thank you, too,
friends, for being with us,
and we look forward
to being together again for another edition
of Extraordinary Experiences.